>> Erik Reinert: Okay, so
now here's the fun part.
Here is the main TF file.
So I'm going to go through this one rather
quickly because there's a lot in here.
But I want to show you the complexity of
something that does not have a module
wrapped around it and
how annoying it can actually be sometimes
to do complex things with Amazon.
So this ECS cluster I purposely
did not use a module with is.
It is a little verbose.
But the main reason why I didn't use
a module with it is because I don't really
like any modules that
exist out there right now.
For ecs, my goal is to really
just create a cluster,
create instances and
get containers on top of it.
But there's a lot of other things
you can do with ECS too, and
it was just too much cruft for me.
So the first thing we create
is an ECS cluster itself.
Now when we say an ECS cluster,
there's really nothing that gets created.
It's kind of just like an entry
in a database, because an ECS
cluster is really all of the instances
that are attached to the cluster.
So the work here really isn't creating
the cluster, it's making sure that all
of the instances have the roles and
policies that they need and can connect
to the cluster and authenticate
the right way and all that stuff.
So when we talk about the ECS cluster,
the.
That's actually the only
resource you need.
That's it.
You just do that, you give it a name and
then you're done.
There's a small.
There's a couple of settings
that you can do here.
Like, you'll see I have
container insights enabled.
This will be helpful when we wanna look
really deeply into a service's metrics and
things like that.
But outside of that,
it's just that one definition.
Then we start jumping into
the auto-scaling group,
which is really the beef of a ECS cluster.
And so the first thing we have is a role,
right?
So we create a role for
the cluster and then what we do is.
You remember how in the UI yesterday,
I told you guys to like,
look through that list of all
the predefined roles and stuff?
Well, you can also use
them in your automation.
So that's what's really, really nice.
Again, going back to that whole, like,
Amazon knows that there's a lot of,
like, things you have to get around
to get something created, so
they've created helpful things to kind of
like just say, well, if you just use this,
this will solve this.
Problem and you'll be pretty much
good to go for most general cases.
And so that's what I'm doing here.
And if you read the role name, it says
Amazon EC2 container service for EC2 role.
Basically all that means is,
is that the container
service works on top of EC2 instances,
which is exactly what we want.
We're going to be creating EC2 instances.
We then create an instance profile.
So with users we use roles,
with instances, we use instance profiles.
That's how we make sure that an instance
can have permission for anything inside
of that instance to connect to S3, connect
to SQS, publish, queue messages, whatever.
We give it an instance profile and then we
attach that role to the instance profile.
And that does mean that whatever
that role can do, that user or
that automation will be able to
do on top of that EC2 instance.
And so it is really nice to use these,
because if you want to make it so
a certain set of instances can
just work with this stuff, but
then they can't communicate with
this other stuff or whatever,
then you can make sure that there's really
good role isolation and stuff there.
Another thing to note is again,
we're dealing with instances,
so you will see the private
key thing pop up again.
But you'll notice again that we're
generating this for a separate purpose.
We generated a bastion SSH key.
This time I'm generating
a cluster SSH key,
which would mean that I would want to take
this SSH key, put it on the bastion node,
so that people connecting to the bastion
node could then jump into EC2 instances
inside of the cluster to debug if needed.
And that's exactly what you would do
if you wanted to debug an instance.
You would first go to
the bastion node SSH in, and
then that node would have
the key pair to the instances.
You would get the IP address
of the cluster node.
You want to work with SSH with that key or
with the cluster key, and then bam,
you're inside of that instance now.
So again, bastion's not like the most
seamless experience, but it will get you
to where you need to be and it will
allow you to debug things if you need.
So that's also why we store
the cluster key inside of ssm.
So if developers need access to it, or
we need access to it, we can get it.
And another thing to note,
remember in this data file here,
I looked up a Amazon specific entry.
Well, I can do the exact same
thing with my own things.
So if down the road I wanted to precede
instances with this key or whatever,
then I could just easily look this
key up in my parameter store and
then use it inside of other
automation in other places.
So parameter store is really nice.
That's all I'm trying to say,
and that's why I like it.
So then we create a launch template.
A launch template works
with an auto scaling group.
The easiest way to describe what a launch
template does is it is the parameters that
defines the instances that
the autoscaler will be provisioning.
It can only take one
instance settings at a time,
meaning you can't have
multiple launch templates.
For an auto scaling group,
you can really only have one, but
you can have multiple versions
of a launch template.
So if you make a change to it, or
if you want to revert back to a previous
set of changes, you can easily do that.
But if you look at it,
it's pretty much the same thing
as an instance configuration.
You tell it the AMI or
the image ID that you want.
In this case, you'll notice that we're
using the parameter from our data lookup.
We also have an instance type.
There's a little bit of
extra work going on here,
which is you'll notice that there's a for
each.
Can anyone guess what I'm doing here?
So you're basically looping
through all of the providers and
then out of that you generate like
a new dictionary template or object and
then you basically repurpose
that into the code.
Exactly, yeah.
So I have a variable that I'm passing to
this cluster called capacity providers.
Remember we said var dot
means that that had to
have been a variable from
outside coming into the module.
And so
what that means is that our ECS clusters
are configurable on the instance level.
And to go a little bit further, what that
means is that if I wanted to make it so
that I could change the disk size for all
of the cluster instances, I could do that.
If I wanted to change the key name for
specific instances, I could do that.
It just means that I'm iterating and
creating multiple launch
templates with that foreach value.
So when we say for each on a resource, it
just simply means that we are looping over
it and then we're creating a bunch
of resources based off of it.
So yeah, we would have,
by the time we ran this,
we would have multiple launch templates
depending on the capacity, provider or
configurations that we give it.
But we'll look at that more
in a minute once you see it.
I think once you see it from
the other side, it'll make sense.
So another thing down here at the bottom,
we're still in the instance section.
But you had asked earlier, how does
the user data get into the instance?
There it is right there.
So we use user data, we import it as
a file, and then these are variables
here that are expected in the template and
then they get replaced.
So again, cluster name is
the cluster name right here.
Right, Cool.
Another thing to kind of note is,
like I said or like Miguel said,
this is supposed to be a loop, right?
And so in this case it says
each value market type spot.
And what that's saying is,
is that, hey, if this,
if this specific configuration
has a market type of spot,
then add that market type
to the instance profile.
Meaning basically turn on
spot instances if we want to.
That's why these capacity groups are.
Is that what they're called?
Capacity?
No, sorry, capacity providers.
That's why these capacity
providers are configurable.
Because sometimes you might want
spot instances in your ECS cluster,
sometimes you may want on demand,
sometimes you may want instances
of this size versus that size.
And that's one of the things
we have set here.
I can set the instance type or the size,
depending on what capacity provider,
and then I can assign containers
to those capacity providers.
So I can say like, all these containers
run on the spot capacity provider, all of
these containers run on the on demand
capacity provider and things like that.
So you get a little bit of that
kubernetes feel of workflow, scheduling,
placement and whatnot.
But that's about as far as it goes.
To be fair,
it's not as complex as kubernetes.
What's the reason you have the base64
encode your template files?
That's just a cloud init thing.
They want it as a base 64 so
that it can be easily transferred over
a request or something like that.
So you base64 encode it just so
that you can then decode it and
get the full exact script and
then encode it and
just have a large file base 64 encoder.
So really quickly, for example,
if I was to go in here and
be like /bin/bash, set EU pipe, fail and
then be like echo "hello
world" W-R-L-D like this,
then that'd be hard to make
as a parameter in this,
it's expecting just a string value.
It'd be especially hard to transmit that
over a network request of some sort.
And so what we do is we just
encode it into this value and
then that value is what actually
gets translated here so
that the network request
can be successful.
And then what happens is when
Cloud Init gets this value,
it then goes and says, all right,
well, I want to decode.
And when we do decode, we get our script.
So it's just a way of encoding the data so
that it's easy to transmit the data and
then re encode it or decode it later so
that you can actually run the scripts and
stuff.
Yeah, because scripts are normally
like multiline strings and
all that kind of stuff.